[Candlemaker]
The girl is alone...
[breathing heavily]
[panting]
...the girl is small...
[whimpers]
...the girl shivers
and quakes.
No!
[quivers]
[Candlemaker] Here we are,
dear girl...
fated to collide
where the very seeds
of our destiny were sown.
Where I began as a whisper,
I am now a roar
and it is you
who breathes in my world.
No!
This isn't fair.
-[Candlemaker] No, dear girl.
-[door raps]
Not fair, but fate.
[roaring]
Please...
[Candlemaker roaring]
[Candlemaker growls]
You are powerful,
but so am I.
You lived in my head.
[roars]
I don't want to fight you.
It is destiny.
-It is the way.
-Then let's change the way.
[exhales]
I don't care about destiny.
You've protected me once
and you protected Manny.
You were my friend.
So I'm going to keep us here,
far away
from everyone and everything
for as long as it will take
until we're friends again.
Only then
will I let us go home.
So what's it going to be?
["Time" playing]
[lights switching on]
♪ Time ♪
[cracking]
♪ Flowing like a river ♪
♪ Time ♪
[sighs]
♪ Beckoning me ♪
You good?
[Larry grunts] Yeah.
♪ Who knows when
We shall meet again ♪
[Cliff]
What the fuck?
♪ Time ♪
Are you okay, Cliff?
I'm fucking incredible.
Go!
[Larry] Rita?
♪ Flowing like a river ♪
[sighs]
You okay?
♪ To the sea ♪
♪ Goodbye, my love ♪
♪ The tide waits for me ♪
♪ But time ♪
♪ Keeps flowing
Like a river ♪
♪ On and on ♪
♪ To the sea ♪
[thumping]
[electrical buzzing]
[Candlemaker roars]
[roaring]
My God.
Dorothy.
-[roaring]
-What the fuck?
[Candlemaker growling]
Father?
[breath trembling]
[screaming] Father!
[weeping]
[ratchet clicking]
Try opening
and closing it again.
[robotic whirring]
It wasn't enough
that he killed my wife
and estranged me and my kid
and made me
miss her fucking wedding.
No! He also had to leave me
with this piece of shit hand.
Try it again.
Probably timed it so it would
crap out after he died
so he could get the last laugh.
Well, congratulations,
you oily fuck.
You win!
The man's dead of old age,
Cliff.
You're not.
By my count,
that puts you ahead.
That's easy for you to say.
All your shit's
cool as fucking shit.
My shit's just shit.
-He did the best he could.
-[arm whirs]
Yeah, well, his best
sucked my asshole.
Great.
Run a full body scan.
[machine whirring]
Please tell me you can fix
Dr. Fuckup's fuckup.
I want to be
a hundred percent
when I punch a hole
through his stupid corpse face.
According to grid,
there is no fuckup.
-How's that?
-Whatever's wrong
with your hand,
it's not mechanical.
Well, scan me again, compadre,
because that's all I am.
Not all of you.
You're saying there's something
wrong with my fucking brain?
You know,
I'm not ashamed to say
that I've fantasized
about Chief's death.
But now that it's happened,
I don't feel
at all like I thought I would.
It's perfectly fine for you
to feel
or not feel whatever it is
that you're feeling
or not feeling.
Our relationship
with the Chief was complex.
I wouldn't expect
our reaction to his death
to be anything less than.
Well, how are you bearing up?
I have dress rehearsal
for Our Town today,
and I can't mar the production
with my personal drama.
Therefore,
I have taken great pains
over the last week
to thoroughly and completely
deal with my grief.
Well, I think it's great
for you to perform in a play
that debases you
and everyone you know.
Should be
a terrific distraction.
Forgive me
for not openly weeping
over the piece of human garbage
that destroyed my career,
my body and my life.
[Larry] Hi, Dorothy.
[sighs] Hello, sweetheart.
Can I fix you something to eat?
Maybe a big bowl
of chocolate ice cream, hmm?
I know
what you're trying to do
and the answer is still no.
I'm not burying Papa
until Jane wakes up.
She deserves a chance
to say goodbye.
She's had that body laid out
for a week.
It's starting to smell like
Louis B. Mayer
after an all-you-can-eat
seafood buffet.
Someone needs to talk
to her.
Wait, wait.
No, didn't the two of you
bond over French toast?
Exactly.
She's lukewarm at best
towards you.
So you've got nothing to lose.
Hey, except my arms and legs
and whatever else
her giant candle
decides to rip off of me.
Were you up all night again?
You know, Rita
and I made some sandwiches
-if you want--
-I'm not hungry.
Okay.
I'm sorry
I used all the peas.
No, it's all right.
No one eats them anyway.
When I was still living
on Danny,
sometimes it would be days,
weeks,
even months
between Papa's visits.
But he always came back.
He'd bring me something
from his travels,
have on a big, silly smile
and say,
"Let's build memories."
Memories are a comfort.
And when your dad
first brought me here,
it seemed like the only thing
that kept me going
were my memories.
The good,
the bad...
didn't matter.
But I got lost in them...
for decades.
And when I finally looked
outside of them,
I was staggered
by how much I gave up
to the habit of holding on.
You've got so much life
ahead of you, Dorothy.
[heaving]
Don't waste it like I did.
How do you let go?
I don't know if I figured
that part out yet...
but maybe we could help
each other
find a good place to start.
[sobs]
[Niles] My dearest Rita,
as I've often told you,
there are mysterious things
in this world
that bear keeping an eye on.
This was the mission
that I lived my life
in service of.
And in my death,
I must now place that burden
upon your capable shoulders.
I hereby
leave the secret to you.
I pray you'll never need it,
but should the time come,
you were the only one I trust.
Best wishes, Niles.
[panting]
Kay?
Kay!
What the hell is this?
Kay?
Kay.
What did she do to you?
Listen to me.
That woman calling
herself Miranda,
she lied to us.
She's not who she said she is.
Come on, Kay.
I did what you wanted.
I went back home.
I found your little lamb.
[breathing heavily]
I'll fix this, Kay,
I promise.
Just like I always do.
I'll make it better, okay?
I promise.
[Mickey]
And whenever you're ready.
And that's when I realized
I can make them pay,
the ones who laughed at me,
called me freak,
goo girl,
Mrs. Melty.
[chortles] Oh, they'd pay.
I'd suffocate them all
-under the weight...
-[thunder crackling]
-...of my rage!
-[thunder rumbling]
-[laughs maniacally]
-[screams]
[man] Oh, the humanity!
[man groans]
My bees.
[scoffs]
[man] Just move off.
I don't know
what I'm supposed to do next.
What does he want me
to do?
Carry on his legacy?
Clean up his mess?
Rewrite all this history?
No.
He turned me into nothing.
And now he wants me
to be something else?
[scoffs] Well, I won't.
I can't.
And I hate him for asking.
And I hate myself
[sighs] for hating him,
because I loved him, too.
And I never told him
either of those things...
and now it's too late.
[sighs]
There's nothing left to say.
[sobbing] My bees...
My bees.
-Who the fuck...
-[gasps] It's you!
You're the Blob Lady!
-[screams]
-[gasps]
[farting noise]
[Silas] Rick?
Is Niles doing some sort
of stasis experiment?
Or is he...
I don't want
to tell you over the phone.
Walking in on his corpse
was a much better way
to break the news.
Sorry,
I lost track of time.
It's hard to believe
that this day's finally come,
or that it didn't come
much sooner.
Are you okay?
I don't know.
How are you?
I'm handling it.
Are you?
[Vic] What do you
want me to say?
That you were right?
I thought
I could help her, but...
I just ended up making things
way worse.
We try so hard
to change the ones we love.
If it's any comfort,
it took me a lifetime
to see the futility in that.
Hey...
I know it hurts,
but don't use it as an excuse
to hide away in here.
And I'm not just saying that
because
there's a decomposing body
down the hall.
[chuckles]
Thanks, Dad.
No, no, no.
Hey, wake up.
You're in danger.
Kay's in danger.
I need you to take me up top.
[electricity crackling]
Fuck. Fuck! Fuck.
Everything's fucked!
And you left me here
to fix it, again!
How am I supposed
to fix this alone? [panting]
How could anyone do this alone?
[woman] You can't.
I know you're not Miranda.
I found her at
the bottom of the well.
I found all the personas
you murdered.
The only thing I didn't find
down there was you... Daddy.
[scoffs] Think bigger, Jane.
I'm not Daddy or Miranda.
I'm not even a persona at all.
[distorted] I'm the infection
that's been festering
inside Kay
since personas even existed.
Every doubt,
every fear, every hurt.
I'm the wound
you can't help but scratch.
Your scratching gave me life.
Day after day,
Kay's pain made me stronger.
Now I've taken control.
[Jane grunts]
After you're gone,
I'll be the only thing
that's left.
Goodbye, Jane.
[typing]
[Cliff] Brain...
problem.
Hand...
slow.
Cliff?
[Cliff yelps]
I came to ask for a favor.
Holy Mary goddamn
fucking shit!
I understand this might be
an adjustment.
What the fuck are you?
Are you a fucking ghost?
If you tell me to get
a pottery wheel,
I swear to God--
Yes. Yes, I am sure you find
my current state very amusing,
but the truth
of the matter is this.
I think my spirit
is trapped here
because my body has not been
put to rest in the proper way.
My remains
have to be incinerated
in order for my spirit
to move on.
[sighs]
And it dawned on me
that if anyone might enjoy
the task of burning me to ash,
it would be you.
[Cliff laughs boisterously]
Oh, wow.
Go fuck yourself.
You think I'm going to help you
get out of this house
and live happily ever after?
Why are you even talking to me?
Shouldn't you be talking
to your daughter?
-[Niles] How many times
can she say goodbye?
-Ah!
It's best I let her be.
Nope. Calling bullshit.
You manipulated and destroyed
the lives of total strangers
for your sole
fucking benefit,
but now you've got the chance
to say a real goodbye
to your daughter,
suddenly it's not about you?
Bullshit.
My goodness. I'd forgotten
who I was speaking to.
Father of the Year.
Hey, asshole,
at least I own my mistakes.
You are so full of shit, Cliff.
You know that?
How do you want
to be remembered
at the end of it all?
When the last of you
has oxidized
into something unidentifiable?
How do you want your child
to remember you?
[Cliff] Warts and all.
Well, I guess that makes you
a better man than I.
[Cliff] You took everything
from me, Chief. Everything.
And after it was all gone,
the last thing I had
was hating you.
Now you're gone, too.
So what the fuck now?
What about Clara?
[Cliff] I don't deserve to be
a part of Clara's life.
You shouldn't give up, Cliff.
I've walked
this godforsaken rock
for more than 100 years,
and one thing I've learned
is there's very little
you can't recover from.
Sometimes we need
a little help,
which is why
I sent the tape to Clara.
[Cliff] You what?
I hoped it would help you
and Clara to mend things,
help her with all the dozens
of unanswered questions.
And to be completely honest...
I hoped it would help
mend things between us.
[Cliff] There isn't
a single gesture
in this goddamn universe
that could fix things
between us.
But...
thank you.
["Cry" playing]
♪ Ooh-wah, Ooh-wah ♪
[phone ringing]
♪ Ooh-wah ♪
♪ If your sweetheart ♪
[knock at door]
[Larry] Rita,
I got a phone call for you.
Your director.
[Rita sighs]
♪ ...of goodbye ♪
[breathes deeply]
♪ You'll feel better ♪
Mickey, before you say a word,
I want you to know
there will not be
a repeat occurrence
of what happened in rehearsal.
[shakily]
I am a professional.
I will show up,
I will say my single line,
and I will go home.
[Mickey] It's good
to hear you say that,
because the cast
is relying on you.
[laughs loftily]
Mickey?
[in deep voice]
This ain't Mickey,
you saggy faced freak!
Don't show your disgusting
blobby face in Cloverton again.
[laughs loftily]
♪ So let your hair down ♪
[sniffles]
♪ And go right on, baby
And cry ♪
♪ Go on and cry ♪
[tape recorder whirring]
[clicks]
[Valentina on recording]
We need to put
the past behind us
if we are ever
going to travel farther.
Hello?
If you ever need
a new perspective on Earth,
I highly recommend space.
[Larry] I was staggered
by how much I gave up
to the habit of holding on.
What?
-[tape rewinds]
-[Larry] ...I gave up
to the habit of holding on.
Where are you?
-[Valentina]
I highly recommend space.
-What are you trying to--
[girl] Captain Larry Trainor,
are you scared?
-Are you scared?
Are you scared?
-Stop.
-[Valentina] I highly
recommend space.
-Stop! Stop! Okay, that's--
-[electricity crackling]
-Oh, shit!
[energy pulsating]
What is this, huh?
What? You want me to let go?
Fine. I'm done.
No more Trainor family drama.
No more dwelling.
It's finished, okay?
Are you happy?
What? What are you...
No. No, I can't.
[breathing heavily]
[sighs]
The Chief is dead.
The cord I have been
clinging on to for 60 years
is finally cut,
and every part of me,
apparently, you included,
is telling me it's time to go.
But this isn't just about us
or what we want.
Rita needs me.
If I walk away,
or fly away from her now,
after everything
we've been through...
I'm sorry, I can't.
Not now.
[sighs]
[elevator dings]
[elevator dinging]
[loud thud]
Didn't we do this already?
-Guess I'm not finished.
-Well, neither am I.
What happened to you was wrong.
If you really believed that,
you would be helping me,
not playing Boy Scout.
[Vic] Can't do that,
and you shouldn't either.
You have a code
that you have to live by,
but I have to live
by mine, too.
And I wouldn't be who I am
if I let you blow up
a building full of people.
So that's it, hmm?
I go to prison, but the people
who poisoned my body
and paid me to do
horrible things
on their behalf walk free?
It's not fair, Vic.
It's not fair,
and it's not right.
That's why I'm giving you
a two-minute head start
before I call the police.
You don't want to become
a name on my list, Vic.
Goodbye, Roni.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
Jane?
I'm sorry.
Thank you
for bringing me Harry.
I'm sorry.
He helped me.
He can help you, too.
[sniffles] I can't fix it.
[shakily]
Everything is broken.
There's no way up.
[sobs]
I think I know another way.
-[line ringing]
-[Cliff] This is so stupid.
I can't believe
I'm taking advice from a ghost.
-[Clara grunts]
-Clara? Clara, is that you?
-Dad?
-Okay. Don't hang up.
Uh, I want...
I want to apologize to you.
And I won't fuck it all up
this time by saying "fuck"
a bunch of times or anything.
I can't.
I can't do this right now.
[straining, grunting]
Oh, uh,
is this not a good time?
Dad, I'm having
a fucking baby right now!
I'm sorry I said "fuck."
[line disconnects]
Oh, fuck!
[Dorothy] I've made a decision.
I'm going to take Papa
up north so he can rest
next to Mama.
I wish you were awake
so you could say
a proper goodbye to Papa.
I know you two
didn't always get on,
but he really cared about you.
And I know
you cared for him, too.
I hope you'll be well
again soon.
Everyone's so worried
about you.
Cliff, especially.
[shakily]
I'm so sorry, Kay.
[sobbing]
I'm so sorry, Baby Doll.
I wish I could
take it all back.
[continues sobbing]
This is gonna get me
to the surface?
We used this before
I built the Underground.
[engine sputtering]
[laughs]
[woman, distorted]
It won't work.
You can't undo this, Jane.
I'm the true Primary.
You're just a coping mechanism.
Alone, afraid.
She's not alone.
[woman] Sweet, sweet baby.
You've forgotten.
Not only do I
control your mind,
I control your body as well.
And Jane can't save you.
But I can end you.
You can't win.
Bullshit.
Bullshit. Bullshit. Bullshit!
Fuck!
[gasps softly]
[whispers] Jane?
[distorted] Mm.
If it isn't the little killer.
You're not Jane.
Not as dumb as you look,
ape shape.
Where is she?
What have you done to her?
[Candlemaker]
Jane is in trouble.
Is he here?
[whistles]
Your pet.
You leave him alone.
[Candlemaker] Let me out.
Let me out. Let me out.
-Mm.
-Let me out.
Let me out. Let me out.
-Does he want
to come out and fight?
-No.
We're not fighting you.
We're not hurting Jane.
Mm. Boo.
[Dorothy gasps, screams]
[groans]
Everyone, come quick!
Jane's in trouble!
[Cliff] Holy shit,
I'm gonna be a grandpa.
No, no, uh, grandpappy.
Yeah.
Or, uh, pops?
Yeah, pops. Just pops.
[laughs] Jane, guess what?
Wait. What the fuck
is up with your face?
[yells, groans]
What the fuck?
[woman] You'll never make it
to the surface on time!
You will all die for nothing!
No one is coming to save you!
Your friends left you behind!
The Chief is dead!
Your body will die
before you make it
to the light!
[all straining]
[woman roaring]
[all yelling]
Keep pushing!
[engine accelerating]
No!
[gasps]
[Cliff] I got you. I got you.
Don't touch me!
[Cliff] Oh, she's back.
She's back.
No.
[Cliff] Yeah, she's back.
[breathing heavily]
It's just going to come back.
It always does.
Then we'll deal with it
like we always do.
And in the meantime,
what do we do with this?
What does it taste like?
Like... whatever you want
[both laugh]
[all laughing]
[woman yelps]
[Larry] Rita?
You okay?
Just peachy.
I'll be all right, you know?
[Larry] Sure you will.
On my own, I mean.
Rita... [sighs]
Rita Farr is not the millstone
round anyone's neck.
No, no, it's not like that.
I need you, too.
But I...
I think there's something
he needs to show me.
I'll always be here for you.
Besides,
maybe there's something left
to discover or unlock here.
It's time for you
and your sparkly chum to go.
[Larry sighs]
Will you water my plants?
-I don't think so.
-[Larry chuckles]
Will you come back?
[sighs]
I don't know.
It's not just up to me anymore.
But I hope so.
I will miss you, Larry.
[Larry] Yeah,
I'll miss you, too.
[Rita sniffles]
[exhales shakily]
And you... I'll miss you, too.
Hey...
What do you say, pal?
Do you wanna... Whoa!
[automated voice]
Call initiated.
[woman] You owe me 20, bro.
[man] What are you
talking about?
[woman] The Roni Evers case.
Somebody tipped her off.
[man] Oh, shit. We know who?
[woman] Not yet,
but we're on it.
[line disconnects]
[automated voice]
Call terminated.
["The Air That I Breathe"
playing]
[baby fussing]
♪ Can't think of anythin'
I need ♪
Can you feel him?
[Cliff] No.
But I remember.
[baby fussing]
Hi, baby Clara.
I'm your dad.
♪ Making love with you ♪
♪ Has left me peaceful
Warm and tired ♪
[Clara] Hey.
You okay?
[Cliff] Yeah. All good.
Just my shitty robotics
being shitty.
[Clara] I think
it's helping him sleep.
[Cliff] Yeah.
♪ Sometimes ♪
♪ All I need
Is the air that I breathe ♪
♪ And to love you ♪
♪ All I need
Is the air that I breathe ♪
♪ Yes, to love you ♪
♪ All I need
Is the air that I breathe ♪
♪ Peace came upon me ♪
♪ And it leaves me weak ♪
Thanks for waiting, Danny.
-[bell dings]
-[horn toots]
We're going on
quite an adventure, Papa.
♪ Sometimes ♪
[engine starts]
♪ All I need
Is the air that I breathe ♪
♪ And to love you ♪
♪ All I need
Is the air that I breathe ♪
♪ Yes, to love you ♪
♪ All I need
Is the air that I breathe ♪
[alarm beeping]
[device vibrating]
Will somebody
do something about...
[shouts] ...that?
[beeping continues]
[sighs]
For fuck's sake.
Ugh.
[ringing]
[automated voice]
Arrival imminent.
You've got to be
fucking kidding.
Arrival imminent.
[exhales]
There are mysterious things
in this world
that bear keeping an eye on.
Arrival imminent.
Arrival...
[clicks off]
[exhales]
[sighs]
I'm sure
it was nothing important.
[man] Gee, Henrietta,
it sure does feel like
everything's come to an end.
[audience chuckles]
Oh, Leonardo, don't you fret.
While it's true
all things come to an end,
every ending
is actually a new beginning.
And you know what word
I associate with new beginning?
[man] Breakfast?
[audience chuckles]
♪ Possibilities ♪
♪ That's right
I said possibilities ♪
♪ Life's filled
With these opportunities ♪
♪ And so is our town ♪
♪ Possibilities ♪
♪ Statistical probabilities ♪
♪ All sorts of potentialities ♪
♪ Lift you up
When you're down ♪
Yes, exactly.
♪ They say
That our story is ending ♪
♪ Now we're all pretending ♪
♪ That our future's bright ♪
♪ But here
In the town of Cloverton ♪
♪ Things are never over-ton ♪
♪ Because our story's
Just beginning ♪
♪ We're not losers
We're still winning ♪
♪ We're the heroes
And our future's up to us ♪
[cheers and applause]
[whistling]
[rumbling]
[hissing]
[sighing]
[zipper opening]
[urinating]
Oh!
That...
Oh...
That's the stuff.
Would you, um, be a doll,
dear, would you?
[gasps]
[paper rustling]
Thank you.
Now, would you be so kind
as to tell me exactly
where am I?
-Cloverton.
-And the year?
-2021.
Oh.
Okay, that should work.
I think.
Say, you wouldn't
happen to know
where I could find
a Niles Caulder, would you?
[squelching]
What?
[screaming]
Oh.
[sighs]
Oh, well.
Guess I'll just have to
find him myself, then.
[mutters] Thanks for nothing.
[rumbling]
Niles Caulder... I'm coming.
Uh...
Huh.
[fire crackling]
[woman moaning in pleasure]
[Niles] Oh.
Well, hello.
[continues moaning]
No.
Oh, what the hell.
What the fu...
[flesh tearing]
[man grunts]
Smile, Caulder.
The world ain't done
with you yet, old man.
[chuckles]
[man] Greg, move your head!